TOOLS.md, before:

# Coq tool guide

This document describes how to use various tools to analyze the Coq code in the repository.

## coq-tools suite

[coq-tools](https://github.com/JasonGross/coq-tools) is a collection of Python 2 scripts that can manipulate Coq code.

### Installation

In order to use the scripts, Python 2 must be installed. For example, in a Debian-based Linux distribution such as Ubuntu:

```shell
sudo apt install python2
```

In Ubuntu, Python 2 can be made the default Python (although this is not strictly necessary for running coq-tools):

```shell
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/python python /usr/bin/python2 1
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/python python /usr/bin/python3 2
sudo update-alternatives --config python
```

Next, clone the coq-tools repository in a sibling directory of the Coq repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/JasonGross/coq-tools.git
```

### Minimizing requires

To minimize a single file's list of Coq require sentences, run the script `minimize-requires.py` from the Coq repository:

```shell
./../coq-tools/minimize-requires.py file.v --in-place .bak
```

In this single file case, all the project's `-Q`/`-R` options must be manually passed to the script. To instead minimize the require sentences in the entire project without the need to manually pass any paths, run the script from the directory where the `_CoqProject` file lives:

```shell
./../coq-tools/minimize-requires.py --all -f _CoqProject
```

Note that the results of running the script must be manually validated. If the script removes dependencies which are actually used, they will need to be added back manually.

## Axiom use analysis

To do basic axiom use analysis for the project as a whole, run the
following command in the project root directory:

```shell
make validate
```

To do detailed axiom use analysis for all files in a certain directory,
for example `theories/CBC`, run the following command in the project
root directory:

```shell
make axioms path=theories/CBC
```

## Stripping newlines 

To strip consecutive newlines exceeding a certain number, run the `strip-newlines.py` script, passing as command line argument `max + 1` (where max is the maximum number of consecutive newlines you want to accept). 

In case you pass a negative number as argument, the content will remain unchanged, and if the argument you pass is `0`, then all strings of consecutive newlines will be replaced by a single space.

For example, if you want to limit the number of consecutive newlines to 1, run:

```shell
python scripts/strip-newlines.py 2
```

Commit message:

Add absolutize imports instructions (#171)
* Add absolutize instructions

* Rephrase instructions

---------

Co-authored-by: Karl Palmskog <palmskog@gmail.com>

TOOLS.md, after:

# Coq tool guide

This document describes how to use various tools to analyze the Coq code in the repository.

## coq-tools suite

[coq-tools](https://github.com/JasonGross/coq-tools) is a collection of Python 2 scripts that can manipulate Coq code.

### Installation

In order to use the scripts, Python 2 must be installed. For example, in a Debian-based Linux distribution such as Ubuntu:

```shell
sudo apt install python2
```

In Ubuntu, Python 2 can be made the default Python (although this is not strictly necessary for running coq-tools):

```shell
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/python python /usr/bin/python2 1
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/python python /usr/bin/python3 2
sudo update-alternatives --config python
```

Next, clone the coq-tools repository in a sibling directory of the Coq repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/JasonGross/coq-tools.git
```

### Minimizing requires

The minimization script included in the Coq repository will operate on absolutized imports.
For example, `Require Import Coq.Lists.List` is the absolutized version of `From Coq Require Import List`.
When in the project's root directory, run the following to absolutize the imports of a file `file.v`:

```shell
./../coq-tools/absolutize-imports.py path/to/file.v --in-place .bak
```

In this single file case, all the project's `-Q`/`-R` options must be manually passed to the script. To instead absolutize the import sentences in the entire project without the need to manually pass any paths, run the script from the directory where the `_CoqProject` file lives:

```shell
./../coq-tools/absolutize-imports.py -f _CoqProject --update-all 
```


To minimize the list of require sentences for a file `file.v` run the script `minimize-requires.py` from the Coq repository:

```shell
./../coq-tools/minimize-requires.py path/to/file.v --in-place .bak
```

To minimize the require sentences for the whole project:

```shell
./../coq-tools/minimize-requires.py --all -f _CoqProject
```

Note that the results of running the script must be manually validated. If the script removes dependencies which are actually used, they will need to be added back manually.

## Axiom use analysis

To do basic axiom use analysis for the project as a whole, run the
following command in the project root directory:

```shell
make validate
```

To do detailed axiom use analysis for all files in a certain directory,
for example `theories/CBC`, run the following command in the project
root directory:

```shell
make axioms path=theories/CBC
```

## Stripping newlines 

To strip consecutive newlines exceeding a certain number, run the `strip-newlines.py` script, passing as command line argument `max + 1` (where max is the maximum number of consecutive newlines you want to accept). 

In case you pass a negative number as argument, the content will remain unchanged, and if the argument you pass is `0`, then all strings of consecutive newlines will be replaced by a single space.

For example, if you want to limit the number of consecutive newlines to 1, run:

```shell
python scripts/strip-newlines.py 2
```
